[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: Like if I wanted to center
the boxes it's actually not too hard.
I'm going to go back to styling in here.
>> Brian Holt: So I have margin on here.
So here I have a 10 pixel on the left and
on the right and
then 30 pixels on the left.
If I just change this to auto and
I change this to auto.
Now it's actually going
to center those right.
Auto is just saying that this
only works on left and right,
it doesn't work on up and down.
Please center myself in
whatever my parent is right.
So like if I have parent-div down here,
if I say width only be like 40%
of what you can actually be.
>> Brian Holt: And
let's just say like a border.
>> Brian Holt: We'll say like blue or
something like that I guess.
Oops, I didn't want that.
Anyway that kind of makes the point.
[SOUND] So, you can see right here
the div only takes up 40% of it's width.
And these are all centered within that.
So, the marginato centers
it within it's parent.
Right, so these ones are all
being centered within the parent.
So, if i said here,
margin 0, and that would be pushed
to the left up here, right?
So these are all centered in here and
not necessarily centered on the page.
It's what you would expect but
it's kind of weird to verbalize it.
That makes sense?
Follow.
>> Speaker 2: Someone commented
that flexboxes were trying
to solve all these problems?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah so, flexbox,
which we do use a little bit on Reddit is
trying to solve some of these
vertical centering woes.
It's been a problem for 15 years, right.
And it just seems kind of silly that
we have the same problem that we had 15
years ago.
So there's a new model of
displaying called flexbox and
centering things in flexbox, vertically is
trivial, like, it's really, really easy.
You just have to say justify content,
middle, or center or
something like that, but
that's for another day.
>> Speaker 2: Is it box
dash flex property?
>> Brian Holt: I don't, flexbox I don't
work in enough to actually remember all
of the things but you have to say like.
>> Speaker 2: Is it part of CSS?
>> Brian Holt: It's CSS 3.
Actually it's even beyond CSS 3,
it's like 3.1.
So you say display flex.
As you can see, it just totally fucked
up or messed up everything, sorry.
>> Speaker 2: Flexbox-flex.
>> Brian Holt: But they haven't even
agreed on like I say the browser
manufacturers have not even agreed about
what that property should be called.
[COUGH] So it's hard to use right now.
But CSS tricks if you wanna look at it
has a really good to toil on how to use
flexbox if that's something
you're interested in learning,
I would highly recommend it.
That's what I refer to
every time I need this,
because there's 30 properties
around it that are useful so.
>> Brian Holt: It's difficult though,
I'll throw that caveat out,
cuz you have to worry about
like flex direction and
hustifying content versus justifying
items and stuff like that.
Other questions about
what's going on here?
Specificity make a little
bit of sense to you?
The more specific you are,
the more it will be applied.
>> Brian Holt: As a general rule,
just something I'd throw out there,
is don't necessarily rely on
order to solve your specificity.
You can have two of them
that refer to one class and
then you can just put the one
you want applied, below it.
It's kind of a poor practice because
if anyone reorganizes your CSS,
which is a kind of a common thing to do,
it could mess up what you were intending,
so I'll just say, play it safe,
use two classes instead.
Another thing that I catch
a lot of crap for this, so
this is a highly contested subject,
I never style on ID ever.
Why?
It's because if I need to
overwride something with an ID has,
it's really hard, right,
you can't, cuz you gonna only have
only one ID in an item right?
So you can't overwride
based on having two ID's.
So you either have to have an ID and
a class, which is really dumb, right?
Or you have to use important,
which you shouldn't use.
Whereas if it was just a class and
it had two classes, guess what you do?
You throw in another class.
You have three classes and
you're done with it.
It's requires very little rewrite if
you're doing everything based on classes.
>> Brian Holt: The only
time that I will style IDs,
is if I can guarantee
this thing is unique.
I'm never going to want to
style this some other place, so
let's just throw an ID on it and
be done with it.
IDs are a specificity nightmare though.
That's why you stick to classes,
I don't ever style in tags, or
very rarely style in tags,
and I yeah, very rarely.
Like I'll style like links and
stuff like that,
but I'll very rarely style like divs or
something like that, never that.
Stick to classes.
You'll have a happy life
if you stick to classes.
Okay, other questions?
All right.
>> Brian Holt: Let's see,
I believe we went over this, I think,
let me just make sure.
>> Brian Holt: We did.
>> Speaker 2: One just came
in kinda talking about SaaS.
>> Brian Holt: Versus class and
stuff like that.
>> Brian Holt: So
spreading CSS is a bit of a pain.
It's kind of archaic.
There's no idea of nesting in CSS.
Say right here if I wanted
to do blog-post but
I wanted to style all the h1's
just inside the blog-post.
You would think this
would make sense right?
I could just nest the rule
inside of blog-post.
Right so I'd have blog-post and then
inside of blog-post, I'd have h1 right?
And I could say color red.
This doesn't work in CSS, CSS,
everything has to be flat.
If I wanted to do all the h1s
inside of the blog post,
I would have to do .blog-post
h1 color red, right.
So this idea of nesting doesn't exist.
So some smart guys got really
sick of doing that and
they wrote another language called SaaS,
there's one called Stylus,
there's one called Less.
Anyway, those are the three big ones,
SaaS being the biggest and then Less and
Stylus fighting it out for second place.
They wrote this language that you write.
This kind of more concise CSS and
then you compile it.
So essentially you run it through another
program which then spits out normal CSS.
It's very useful, we use it in Reddit,
we use it in SaaS.
I would recommend as you're starting out,
just kind of wrapping your mind around
CSS, cuz SaaS and Less introduced some
really more advanced complex ideas.
So it's better just to start
out writing vanilla CSS and
then once you get sick of writing CSS,
then it's a good time to jump to SaaS cuz
then you're like, everything that I hate
about CSS has mostly been solved by this.
So but anyway,
there's a lot more than just like nesting,
but that's one of the things that
people really like is nesting.
>> Speaker 3: Variables, right, you can
have variables in your [INAUDIBLE].
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, actually Firefox
now allows you to have CSS variables.
So that actually can work now in CSS,
which is pretty rad.
Because for example, say I had this color.
I don't know say my favorite
one is fog dog, fog dog.
It's orange.
So this color right here,
say I was using it all over my CSS, right?
That was like my brand color and
I needed to use it everywhere.
It's really annoying to
have to repeat that and
then say that if my brand color changes.
I'm Airbnb and now I'm suddenly
red instead of blue right?
You would have to go back to literally
every place in your CSS and change it.
But if you use a variable right,
you change it one place and ta-da it's
changed everywhere, which is kind of nice.
So, that's why variables are useful,
they are in SaaS,
and they just came out in modern browsers,
which means we can use them in five
years when everyone's caught up.